=head1 NAME

Lk4 - rule- and data-based transformation of URLs

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Lk4;
    $lk4 = Lk4->new(
        'config_file' => $conf,
        'data_dir'    => $dir,
        ...
    );
    $lk4->let('$foo' => 'bar');
    $lk4->let('foo(bar)' => \&baz);
    %result = $lk4->resolve('/absolute/uri/path');

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Lk4> resolves URIs into target URIs.

It is suitable for use in a general link redirection service.

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item B<new>

    $lk4 = Lk4->new(
        'config_file' => $conf,
        'data_dir'    => $dir,
        ...
    );

Which config files are read may be overridden by specifying C<config_file> or
C<config_dir> arguments (or both):

    $lk4 = Lk4->new(
        'config_file' => '/etc/lk4/foo/main.conf',
        'config_dir'  => '/etc/lk4/foo/includes',
    );

If B<config_file> is used but not B<config_dir>, then B<config_dir> will be set
to the value of B<config_file> with C<.d> substituted for C<.conf>.

The names of config files within I<config_dir> B<must> match the glob C<*.conf>
or they will be ignored.

=item B<read_config_file>

    $lk4->read_config_file($f);

=item B<let>

    $lk4->let('$foo' => 'bar');
    $lk4->let('foo(bar)' => \&baz);

Define a variable or function.  This is not normally required, as you can
accomplish the same thing using a Perl function in a config file.

=item B<resolve>

    %result = $lk4->resolve($uri);
    if (!$result{ok}) {
        print "Error: $result{message}\n";
    }
    elsif (!$result{uri}) {
        print "URI: $result{uri}\n";
    }
    elsif ($result{menu}) {
        print "Menu: $result{menu}{title}\n";
    }

=back

=head1 CONFIGURATION

Config files contain this stuff...

=over 4

=item B<under>

C<under> introduces a scope under which URIs beginning with a particular prefix may be
resolved.  For example:

    under /doc {
        forward /<docid>        to http://public.example.org/read?docID=<docid>
        forward /<docid>/secret to http://secret.example.org/read?docID=<docid>
    }

This would redirect C</doc/12345> to C<<
http://public.example.org/read?docID=12345 >> and C</doc/98765/secret> to C<<
http://secret.example.org/read?docID=98765 >>.

An C<under> block may contain any directive, not just C<redirect>; those
directives will apply only to URIs that fall under the given prefix.

=item B<function>

A function takes zero or more inputs and produces an output.  You can use this,
for example, to map library names to proxy prefixes

    function base(name) {
        main  -> http://example.net
        smith -> http://smith.example.net
        jones -> http://jones.example.net
    }
    forward /foo/<name>/<docid> to <base(name)>/foo/<docid>

Functions may be defined in a data file:

    function new(docid) from doc-id-mapping
    forward /doc/<docid> to http://new.example.org/doc/<new(docid)>

Functions may be written in Perl:

    function qux(docid) :perl {
        my ($docid) = @_;
        my $uri = ...;
        return $uri;
    }

=item B<menu>

A menu is a list of URIs to present to the user.  Example:

    under /doc {
        menu pdf_or_text(docid) {
            title Alternatives
            item /pdf/<docid>.pdf   "PDF"
            item /txt/<docid>.txt   "Text"
        }
        forward /<docid> to menu pdf_or_text(docid)
    }

=back

=head1 FILES

Default config files are as follows:

=over 4

=item B</usr/local/lk4/conf/lk4.conf>

=item B</usr/local/lk4/conf/lk4.d/*.conf>

=back

=head1 BUGS

Functions must be called using arguments whose names match the formal parameter
names with which the function was declared.  Ditto menus.

=head1 AUTHOR

Paul Hoffman E<lt>paul@flo.orgE<gt>.

=head1 LICENCE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2012 Fenway Libraries Online.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License, version 2.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

=cut
